
Transaction : Collecction of operation that forms a single logical unit of work.
eg : Transferring of amount from saving to current amount for a customer

Every database should fullfill ACID property.

A-> Atomicity : Either all operations of the transaction are reflected properly in the database, or none are 

C-> Consistency :Execution of a transaction in isolation (that is, with no other
transaction executing concurrently) preserves the consistency of the database.

D-> Durability-> After a transaction completes successfully, the changes it has
made to the database persist, even if there are system failures.

I-> Isolation -> Even though multiple transactions may execute concurrently, the
system guarantees that, for every pair of transactions Ti and Tj , it appears to Ti
that either Tj finished execution before Ti started or Tj started execution after
Ti finished. Thus, each transaction is unaware of other transactions executing
concurrently in the system.


Ensuring consistency for an individual transaction is the responsibility
of the application programmer who codes the transaction.

Ensuring atomicity
is the responsibility of the database system; specifically, it is handled by a
component of the database called the recovery system. How it does it??

The basic idea behind ensuring atomicity is this: The database system
keeps track (on disk) of the old values of any data on which a transaction
performs a write. This information is written to a file called the log. If the
transaction does not complete its execution, the database system restores the
old values from the log to make it appear as though the transaction never
executed.

The recovery system of the database, is responsible
for ensuring durability, in addition to ensuring atomicity.


Isolation:if several transactions are executed concurrently, their operations
may interleave in some undesirable way, resulting in an inconsistent
state.
For example, as we saw earlier, the database is temporarily inconsistent
while the transaction to transfer funds from A to B is executing, with the
deducted total written to A and the increased total yet to be written to B. If a
second concurrently running transaction reads A and B at this intermediate
point and computes A+B, it will observe an inconsistent value. Furthermore,
if this second transaction then performs updates on A and B based on the
inconsistent values that it read, the database may be left in an inconsistent
state even after both transactions have completed.
A way to avoid the problem of concurrently executing transactions is to
execute transactions serially— that is, one after the other. However, concurrent
execution of transactions provides significant performance benefits, as
we shall see in Section 14.5. Other solutions have therefore been developed;
they allow multiple transactions to execute concurrently.
We discuss the problems caused by concurrently executing transactions
in Section 14.5. The isolation property of a transaction ensures that the concurrent
execution of transactions results in a system state that is equivalent
to a state that could have been obtained had these transactions executed one
at a time in some order. We shall discuss the principles of isolation further in
Section 14.6. Ensuring the isolation property is the responsibility of a component
of the database system called the concurrency-control system, which
we discuss later, in Chapter 15.
