Serializable schedules are the ideal way to ensure consistency, but in our dayto-day
lives, we don’t impose such stringent requirements. A Web site offering
goods for sale may list an item as being in stock, yet by the time a user selects
the item and goes through the checkout process, that item might no longer be
available. Viewed from a database perspective, this would be a nonrepeatable
read.
As another example, consider seat selection for air travel. Assume that a
traveler has already booked an itinerary and now is selecting seats for each
flight. Many airline Web sites allow the user to step through the various flights
and choose a seat, after which the user is asked to confirm the selection. It could
be that other travelers are selecting seats or changing their seat selections for
the same flights at the same time. The seat availability that the traveler was
shown is thus actually changing, but the traveler is shown a snapshot of the seat
availability as of when the traveler started the seat selection process.
Even if two travelers are selecting seats at the same time, most likely they
will select different seats, and if so there would be no real conflict. However,
the transactions are not serializable, since each traveler has read data that was
subsequently updated by the other traveler, leading to a cycle in the precedence
graph. If two travelers performing seat selection concurrently actually selected
the same seat, one of them would not be able to get the seat they selected;
however, the situation could be easily resolved by asking the traveler to perform
the selection again, with updated seat availability information.
It is possible to enforce serializability by allowing only one traveler to do
seat selection for a particular flight at a time. However, doing so could cause
significant delays as travelers would have to wait for their flight to become
available for seat selection; in particular a traveler who takes a long time to
make a choice could cause serious problems for other travelers. Instead, any such
transaction is typically broken up into a part that requires user interaction, and
a part that runs exclusively on the database. In the example above, the database
transaction would check if the seats chosen by the user are still available, and
if so update the seat selection in the database. Serializability is ensured only for
the transactions that run on the database, without user interaction.
